---
title: "The State of the Foundation address, April 2014"
id: 243
categories:
  - Tox Foundation
date: 2014-04-27 02:05:15
tags:
---

I'd like to take a moment to keep you folks informed about the status of the foundation behind Tox, something I plan on doing monthly.

Late December of 2013 Project Tox officially became a ULX Foundation project, this granted Tox developers the ability to attend shows like CES at no charge and participate in Google Summer of Code, all while providing legal a presence for the project.

For the past two months Tox developers and ULX Foundation folks discussed a rename, ideas were bounced everywhere but nothing was settled on. To deal with this rename an acting board was formed.

Half way through April the idea to write a technical paper came up, the acting board agreed to form the Tox Technical Reporting working group, who are still working on this.

On the 24th a decision on the rename was made, the acting board unanimously agreed to adopt the name Tox Foundation. On this same day the acting board agreed to change the title Tox Developer to Tox Engineer, designating between those who do engineering related tasks and those who do other essential tasks.

On the 25th the paperwork was filed, and the rename was official.

Next up is adopting a new set of bylaws, adopting a new board, and working out all the financial aspects of everything. We hope that with the Foundation by our sides, the Tox Project and all of our future projects will prosper.
